Functional Crossing and Finishing Session

1.  Shadow Play to begin. Attack in two’s to begin. Movement away from the ball initially if there is time in the build up. We are working on the timing of runs. Attack near post and far post areas. Cross from both sides. 

2.  Position off the near post; don’t go beyond it to meet the ball; unless drawing a defender out of position for the second striker to attack. Winger plays a 1–2 and crosses as early as possible. Strikers know this and must get in position to meet the cross. The cross should be between knee and head height. Service could be a driven pass from a striker to a wide player or the play starts wide (timing is better).

Develop: 

a)  Introduce a defender who must choose a striker to mark. The defender starts from the same area as the striker as if retreating back towards goal. The crosser finds a free player. 

b)  Introduce a third attacking player in behind the front two for the pull back.                      

c)  Have the opposite wide player coming inside as an additional attacker to cover the area beyond the far post, and the crosser has another player to pick out (now it is a 4 v 1 situation).                                                                                                              

d)  Introduce another defender to mark up another attacker (A 4 v 2).

Picture2.gif
1.  Once (3) and (7) have played the wide player in to cross, they can take up anticipation area positions around the box to receive any second ball possession from defenders clearances. They can shoot or pass to someone in a better position (this keeps the pressure on). 

2.  These are the positions they need to be in to make it easy for the crosser to deliver the ball.

3.  This provides four options so wherever the crosser plays the ball in there could or should be someone fairly close to the ball to affect a finish on goal.

The End Phase
crossing and finishing end session
The final set up for a functional crossing session is shown here The Scenario is as follows: 

1. We have a four versus two overload situation with wide players working 1 – 2’s or receiving diagonal passes from central strikers to create a crossing position 

2. Strikers make runs away from the ball initially to confuse defenders. By running away from the ball defenders who mark them can see either the player or the ball, not both at the same time. This gives the striker the edge. Defenders must pick a player out and track their run.                                                                                                  

3.  Four players attacking the cross and expecting that they will be the one to receive it so they make sure they get into the correct attacking positions.                              

Picture4.gif
4.  An attempt is made to score a goal. Whatever the outcome the central attackers and the defenders move back around the outside of the practice to start again and the next two lines begin their attack. We are generally working on one touch finishing from the attackers.                                                                                                                                

5. Develop this session by opening it out into a phase of play and bring in a back three or four plus a midfield to defend taking it into a game situation but only when you are getting constant success with the overload situation.

Second six yard box is the target area for the crosser

crossing area
Crossing area means it’s difficult for the keeper to come and claim the ball.

Crossover run can be on too where (2) is far (3) is near.

1.  Do both sides. (2) And (3) get into near post / far post positions quickly. Alternate the positions of the players.

2.  “Second six yard box” is the target area for the crosser where the keeper is just out of range to go and catch the ball without being vulnerable. If it is into the actual 6 yard box then the keeper should be the favorite to win the ball.

Get much more like this in the new “Soccer Awareness Coaching Curriculums presented by Game Sizes: 4 v 4, 7 v 7, 9 v 9 through to 11 v 11”

This eBook covers up to 14 weeks of training for each game size presented as one session per week. All sessions have small sided games scrimmage set ups as close as we can get it to finish to reflect the theme of the session.