Change of direction moves
Inside cut- dribbling in any direction place inside of foot on far side of ball and change direction at a 90 degree angle.
Outside cut- dribbling in any direction place outside of foot on far side of ball and change direction at a 90 degree angle.
Step Back- dribbling in any direction step on ball with right foot then push ball opposite direction with outside of left foot.  Or switch order of feet.
Weaver- dribbling in any direction step over ball in a circular motion with right foot and leg.  After stepping over ball with right foot plant right foot next to left side of the ball.  Then turn body at dribble ball with the inside of the left foot to change directions.  Or switch order with feet.
Pull Back- dribbling in any direction plant left foot next to ball, reach right foot around to the far side of the ball and pull ball back behind the body with the inside of the right foot. Then push ball away from body with the outside of the left foot.  Or switch order of the feet.
 
Attacking Moves
Head and Shoulders Fake- dribbling forwards take right foot, leg, head and shoulders and lunge towards right side of the ball.  Then dribble ball in a 45-degree angle away from the body with the outside of the left foot.  Or switch order with feet.
Step OverHead and Shoulders Fake(half scissors)- dribbling forwards step over ball with the right foot from left side of the ball to the right side of the ball.  Plant foot with head and shoulders facing the right next to right side of the ball.  Then push ball in a 45-degree angle away from the body with the outside of the left foot.  Or switch the order.
Stop and Go #1- dribbling forwards fake a inside cut with the inside of the right foot and drag left foot forwards dribbling ball forward with the inside of the left foot.  Be sure to turn your right hip while doing the inside cut to make defender think you are going to change directions.  Or switch order with feet.
Stop and Go #2- dribbling forwards fake a step back with the right foot and drag left foot forward dribbling ball forward with the inside of the left foot.  Dribbling forward step on top of the ball with the right foot then drag left foot forward and dribble forward with the inside of the left foot.  Or switch order with feet.
Stop and Go #3- dribbling forwards step on top of the ball with the right foot and then push ball forward with the top of the right foot.  Or switch order of the feet.
Studder- while dribbling forward fake stepping on ball with right foot and then immediately push ball forward with the top of the right foot.  Do not actually step on the ball, put foot over ball like you are going to stop it and then push ball forward with top of the foot.  Or switch order of the feet.
Double step over header and shoulders fake(full scissors)-  step over the ball with the right foot and then step over the ball with the left foot.  After left foot is planted, push ball with the outside of the right foot in a 45 degree angle.  Ball must be moving forward to keep feet from tangling up.
Stanley Matthews- with ball on the inside of the right foot, push ball forward with the inside of the right foot while hopping forward with the left foot.  After two hops push ball in a 45 degree angle with the outside of the right foot.  Or switch feet.
Step Over Follow- same as a step over head and shoulders fake, except, instead of pushing the opposite direction of the fake dribble the ball the same direction as the fake with the inside of the opposite foot.  Step Over with the right foot to the right and then dribble with the inside of the left foot towards the right.
Zig Zags- dribbling with the outside of the foot and the inside of the same foot moving the ball side to side.  Dribble with the outside of the right foot to the right and then dribble with the inside of the foot to the left.  Then repeat.  Be sure that they are dribbling the ball side to side and not dribbling the ball straight ahead. 
 

Turning Moves
Either a partner or a kick back wall may be used to work on turning moves.  Have player play ball into receiver’s feet or kick ball off kick back wall to receive ball at feet.

Inside Cut Turn-While ball is approaching body go to ball.  Once ball is within 2-3 yards from player head and shoulders fake to the right.  Then plant left foot behind ball and swing right leg across body and receive ball with the inside of the right foot.  While receiving ball with the inside of the right foot, self pass or trap ball towards the left side of the body.  Ball needs to be 2-3 yards away from the body (after self passing) in order to keep momentum going.  Run towards ball and turn it up field.  Or switch order of feet.  This move is effective when the defender is right behind the offender.
Outside Cut Turn-While ball is approaching body go to the ball.  Once ball is 2-3 yards from the player head and shoulders fake to the right.  Then plant right foot behind right side of the ball and self pass or trap ball with the outside of the left foot towards left side of the body.  Ball needs to be 2-3 yards away from the body  (after self passing) in order to keep momentum going.  Run towards ball and turn it up field.  Or switch order of feet.  This move is effective when the defender is right behind the offender.
Weaver Dummy-While ball is approaching body go to ball at a slight angle.  If ball is toward the left side of the body step over ball with the left foot allowing the ball to go through legs (nutmeg yourself).  Plant left foot and turn towards ball heading up field or into the open space.  If ball is on right side of the body repeat but using opposite feet.
Andrulis Turn-While ball is approaching body go to ball.  Once ball is 2-3 yards away from the body turn body side ways and trap ball with the outside of the right foot.  Trap ball directly next to the right foot and step over ball with the right foot at a 45-degree angle turning to face the defender.  Then with the inside of the left foot dribble ball back towards the right foot and then immediately touch ball forward with the right foot.  The touches from the left foot to the right foot need to extremely quick to prevent the defender from stealing the ball.  After stepping over the ball with the right foot and starting to turn the body toward the defender the defender should have a good view at the ball.  Aggressive defenders may think that they have a good opportunity to tackle the ball.  The offender will want this to happen so they can do the quick 1-2 touch to get by the defender while they are still off balance lunging for the ball.  Move can be done with either feet or turning in either direction.  This is an aggressive turning move that should be done to quickly advance up field or to obtain a shot on goal.
Spin Turn-While ball is approaching body go to the ball.  Once ball is close to the body receive ball with the inside of the right foot, pull ball back towards body and spin body in a 90 degree angle simultaneously while receiving ball.  Trap ball and turn body at the same time to square up to the defender.  Plant the left to turn the body while receiving the ball with the inside of the right foot.  Or switch order of the feet.